---
title: My ADHD tips (WIP)
date: 2024-11-06
tags: personal
---

I might describe my productivity with a single word: inconsistent.

Some days I find myself a whirlwind of getting things done. All the one-off chores that needed to happen are suddenly taken care of in an hour.
I get my tasks done at work, plus a couple extra that I've been meaning to explore. And I still have energy to spare at the end of the day to work
on my creative hobbies.

Other days I can barely engage with the things around me. 

This is pretty common for ADHD folks. I struggled a lot with this when I was in school, and didn't know what was going on. I just thought
I was lazy, not disciplined, or didn't have the appropriate motivation for my school work. It was discouraging, and yet I could cram for a test
the night before and get an A. I could write a paper in two hours and get a decent grade. 

If I could do that well with little effort, imagine what I could do with more effort? This is what my parents asked.

If I could do that well with little effort, why do any more? This is what I secretly thought in my head.

I got lucky to find a job that suits me fairly well. I don't have as much rote tedium as I did in school. And I like the kinds of responsibilities
that I have now after a few years of work under my belt. That wasn't always the case though... I struggled a lot as a junior engineer. The fact
that I was asked to just "do the work" and complete it to a certain level of quality was quite difficult. Without any creative or authoritative responsibility
over the tasks, I was bored by my work. This was not conducive to me growing much in my position. I was under a lot more supervision back then,
and honestly I think that level of scrutiny made it harder on me. I knew I wasn't going to do it perfectly, so I was scared to try and do it at all.

The way I view things now... I see my attention and focus as an incredible weapon. If I can aim it at the tasks that benefit me in the long term... I feel
capable of doing those things extraordinarily well. But it requires an immense amount of work and coercion to aim it at the right thing. 

For example - I could cram study for a test, and memorize all the study material in an hour. If I only got a B, my parents would blame it on the fact I hardly studied
days before. They'd encourage me to pace things out better. Study a little bit every day. That never seemed to click for me. Instead of pacing out my work, what if I banked on that hour of cram-studying? 

### Times of Day
Presently, at work, I organize myself around three times of day: Morning, Afternoon, and Evening. I roughly try to pick the right work for the right time of day. Morning comes between start time and lunch. Afternoon is between lunch time and afternoon coffee break (~3pm). Evening is between afternoon coffee break and ending work (~5p). My day goes from 9a to 5p, so that means I have roughly 3 hours for Morning tasks, 1.5 to 2 hours for Afternoon tasks, and 1.5 hours for Evening tasks.

If I have lots of meetings during the day, I spend my Morning getting prepped. I line up all my busywork tasks and knock them down. I don't try to get into any bigger chunks of work.
No task should take more than 10 minutes to do, ideally no more than 5. Those fit nicely in between meetings or during meetings when I'm bored. I don't feel interrupted by anything, and I can gain
momentum by crushing lots of little tasks.

If I don't have many meetings, then I spend a little bit of time prepping my Morning for focused work. This means gathering **all** of my todos across Slack, email, Shortcut, and Notion
and adding them into my day plan. By doing that, I get a complete "lay of the land" and don't have to bounce around between threads. 
Then I bite off a good-sized chunk of whatever big project task I'm working on, and take 20-30 minutes to work on that.

Afternoon is almost always for busy work. Clean up what's leftover from the morning, fire off slack messages, tie off any loose threads of the big chunk of work I tackled in the Morning (if possible).

Evenings are also almost always for "wrap up" work - write up my daily status, update tickets, message East Coast coworkers who will start earlier than I do the next day. Evenings are also great
for little fun tasks, like exploring a new tool, reading some article I found, or drawing a diagram of something I'm confused by.

I find that there's a lot more little tasks throughout the day that I used to not keep track of. And I spend a lot of time doing little tasks. Somehow I do so much more work that I used to, this way,
even though it seems like I'm spending less focused time on deep work.

### Timeboxing
The reason why I have lots more little tasks is because I relentlessly timebox everything I do. I expect every todo on my list to be less than 20 minutes to complete.
Most of them are less than 10 minutes. I think this is how I've overcome the main manifestation of my executive dysfunction: "time distortions".

A "time distortion" is when my gut reaction to a task is that it will take **way** longer to do than I have time for. Cleaning that knife and plate in the sink? That's going to take me two hours.
Finishing up that design doc I'm working on? That's going to take me ALL DAY. Taking Herald on a walk? Bye bye afternoon and evening. I started noticing these one day when I found
myself **dreading** taking Herald on a walk in Seattle because he would get all wet, and wiping him off with a towel after his walk felt like it would take me until bedtime. Since then,
I've been on the lookout for when my brain wildly overestimates how long something will take.

I'm not sure where these distortions come from, but I've noticed that they're spiked by certain aspects of a task, and are eased if I make note of that challenging or annoying aspect of a task, or
if I reorient the task so that it isn't so "distorted". For example, my brain overdramatizes the amount of time and effort it takes to do dishes if I spot one of 
[these](https://www.ikea.com/us/en/p/oevermaett-food-cover-set-of-3-silicone-multicolor-80417311/) in the sink. I'm not sure why! These little silicone lids are pretty quick
and easy to clean. It might be something about their shape, and maybe the fact they're annoying to put on the drying rack. But every time one of these needs to get cleaned,
my expected time for cleaning the dishes goes wayyyy up. Same if all the dishes are piled up in the sink. How do I work around these time distortions? I do prep work.

For some reason, prep work isn't considered real work to me. I'm able to spend more time prepping to do a task than actually doing the task. It's easier for me to fetch the cleaning supplies
to clean the bathroom, then actually clean the bathroom. I think it's something about breaking down the task - once you've gotten things slightly more organized and ready to work with, half the task
is already complete.

Timeboxing also dramatically cuts back on my distortions. I use an egg timer on my desk to set a limit on how long I can work on a task. The egg timer clicks every second, and rings loudly
once it reaches the time limit. I love the aggressivenes of this, it really pumps me up to churn through tasks as fast as possible. I put a timebox on every task I have to do, starting at 1 minute, and going up in intervals of 5 minutes (5, 10, 15, 20), with a cap at ">20".

1 minute tasks don't require the timer, I just do them as fast as I can. 5-20 minute tasks, I'll set my timer and turn on some music to hype me up. Then I just plug away.

### Procrastinating as a weapon
Coming back to cramming for a test the night before... society aligns around the idea of "pacing yourself". But what if procrastinating is a super power for you? If I can get a B on my test and
only study for an hour, isn't it diminishing returns to study an hour every night and get an A? Isn't a B good enough? What if the night before has a special power for me, since it has more
pressure and urgency?

Instead of pacing myself, I have tried a different approach - setting myself up to perfectly procrastinate. Can I make the night before my test highly efficient to get myself an A?

I didn't ever figure that out while in school, but I've used it to great effect at work. If there's a presentation that I need to do at work, I don't create the slides until the day before. But I will
prep for making those slides, by writing out a first draft in 10 minutes a week ahead of time. I know then that those ideas are swimming around in the back of my head. Once marinated, I'll
be able to access that knowledge and fully combined concepts when it comes time to create the powerpoint.  
