---
title: I accidentally became a professional game developer
date: 2025-03-31
---
Since I was young, I've dreamed of being a game developer, but haven't felt like I've done enough to earn that label. When I was in elementary school, I dreamed of making RPGs and would draft characters and their stat blocks on page after page in my notebooks. In college, I built a couple of game prototypes using what skills I had in Android development. After graduating, I attended game jams and worked on small projects both by myself and with friends, but none of these projects felt complete. Rather, they felt like they were abandoned when I hit a major hurdle and lost interest in them.




But I’ve never thought of myself as a game developer. I don’t do it full-time. I don’t release games regularly. And yet, almost by accident, I ended up making a game that got released, played, and recognized in a way nothing else I’ve built has.

### childhood
When I was a kid, video games were seen as a sugary, addictive hobby and was discouraged by my family. I got my own system to play games pretty young  (cobalt blue GBA SP), around 8 or 10, but it felt like I was way behind the curve - many of my friends had already been playing for a couple of years at that point.

I don’t know if at the time, I really thought I could be a game developer. But I spent tons of time doing the only thing that I knew how to do: drawing and writing game designs.

I vividly remember reading a particular issue of Nintendo Power magazine ([Dec 2005](https://archive.org/details/nintendo-power-issue-198-december-2005/mode/2up)) over and over with an in-depth write up on Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance. I never had played a Fire Emblem game before but I fell in love with the promotion mechanics, the RPG stat blocks, and the character designs. I would draft up my own stat blocks, class trees, and draw my own characters with imagined names and backstories.

Eventually, as time passed, I didn’t do this as much anymore, and largely my dreams of being a game developer faded into the background while other new dreams started to bloom.

### school
In middle school, Facebook got big, and I found myself in a similar position: not building anything, but instead drawing detailed product UI designs and writing up press releases for apps I could (or "would") develop. I wanted to create beautiful, novel apps and video games but I was spending my time in the ideation phase, and didn’t have the tools or the knowhow to step into building and tinkering.

My obsession with huge tech companies and web apps drew me to computer science when I started college and it was a perfect fit. I have had moments since graduating where I wish I pursued a music major, or even a physics major, but I think if I had done that, I would have found that computer science was always another love for me.

I dabbled in video game development throughout college using a couple of different technologies. I built a choose-your-own-adventure game with a friend for a final project for one of our classes. I prototyped a game like Life Simulator using what skills I had in Android development, but that effort petered out without a lot of competence in that area. I watched a ton of Unity tutorials but I couldn’t quite crack it.

I finally could *start* to get my ideas on paper into working prototypes with my newfound computer science skills, but I struggled to complete these projects. There were always gaps in my abilities that would place (seemingly) insurmountable hurdles in my path. Instead of wrapped up, they were often abandoned once I got stuck on something.

I could have made more games like my choose-your-own-adventure game, but... didn't. It didn't feel like something I could be proud of, but something I just threw together for school. I needed to push myself in order to make something better and better. If I retread the same ground, I wouldn't be growing and improving.
### post-grad
I moved to Berlin and found myself with a lot more time for game development (no friends), but still struggling to make progress toward my goals while learning on my own. 

To solve both problems, I joined my first game jam, and that catapulted me up the steep learning curve of making games in Unity for the first time. I got a huge running start in just several hours with somebody who already knew what they were doing.

Since then, I've participated in a handful of game jams, built some games with friends, and worked on a couple of solo projects here and there. All of these projects dissipated almost as fast as they started; once they were built they faded into the background.

I had hoped that by this point, I would have created something with a little more longevity. But it felt like I couldn't ever make anything great unless I was completely devoting my time to it. And I just couldn't do that while working 40 hours a week at my day job.

I've felt tension for since graduating college about being a software engineer, but not being a game dev. Why not make the jump?  I think I'd be happier, and prouder, to work on video games full time. But I'd almost certainly get paid less and work much harder and longer. Would I be *more* frustrated being so close to making games but not being able to make all creative decisions?