Consumed

- the creative act Rick rubin
    - We tend to think of the artists work as the output
    - The real work of the artist is a way of being in the world
    - Make your art no matter what
    - FART
    - Memories and the Subconscious p63
        - Trancelike nature (feverish) can help stimulate the subconscious where a great well of material comes from
            - I feel this when I enter into a place of improvisation over a drone or repeated pattern
        - Dream interpretation - what songs are coming out of my subconscious on my mental radio? Why?
    - Make it up p80
        - If you have an imperfect version of a work you really love, you may find that when it finally seems perfect, you don’t love it in the same way. This is a sign the imperfect version was actually the one. The work is not about perfection.
    - Self Doubt p 74
        - Our deep, sensitive feelings are the reason why we do art. This self-doubt and anguish doesn’t take away from the process - it contributes.
        - “The sensitivity that allows them to make the art is the same vulnerability that makes them more tender to being judged. Still, many continue to share their work and risk criticism in spite of this. It’s as if they have no other choice. Being an artist is who they are, and they are made whole thru self-expression”
- Hadestown
- Pickle tierlist (not in order as of yet)
    - Bubbies
    - Grillo’s
    - Vlasic
    - Spears vs baby vs cornichon vs thick daddies
    - PCC kind (don’t remember the name)
    - Nalley

### themes

Reflection. Awareness. Noticing

- “the art of noticing” tiktoks
- Up and down. Tension and release.
- I’ve always struggled with the tail of projects. Finishing what I started. Closing cabinet doors when I’m done. Coming up with good ideas and executing them and bringing them down from subconsciousness into physical space. Cleaning (back to the antidote to tech!)
- I think it’s because I come with a shotgun approach. Broad, vast, connections across many things. Associations are closer between thoughts to me than others. I can see what could be.
- I have dozens, if not a hundred, of unfinished ideas for piano. Their time may not have come yet. But I don’t have those ideas easily accessible and able to be related. Reflection and cleaning are the same side of the same coin. They need to happen in order to put things back in order, allow more creation and expansion to happen. Seasonal stretching